# United States Patent Application Publication

## ABSTRACT

A battery module includes a battery cell assembly having a plurality of battery cells, a sensing assembly which covers a front and rear of the battery cell assembly when mounted thereto, a module case which receives the battery cell assembly and the mounted sensing assembly, and a thermally conductive adhesive interposed between an upper inner surface of the module case and an upper side of the battery cell assembly. The sensing assembly includes a first busbar frame assembly positioned at the front of the battery cell assembly, a second busbar frame assembly positioned at the rear of the battery cell assembly, and a sensing wire which connects the first and second busbar frame assemblies and runs across the upper side of the battery cell assembly in a diagonal direction. The thermally conductive adhesive is disposed on two sides of the sensing wire.

## BATTERY MODULE, BATTERY PACK COMPRISING BATTERY MODULE AND VEHICLE COMPRISING BATTERY PACK

### CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS

- [0001] This application is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 oflnternational Application No. PCT/KR2019/ 001999 filed Feb. 19, 2019, which claims priority from Korean Patent Application No. 1()-2()18-()()29211 filed on Mar. 13, 2()18, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.


### TECHNICAL FIELD

- [0002] The present disclosure relates to a battery module, a battery pack comprising the battery module and a vehicle comprising the battery pack.

### BACKGROUND ART

- [0003] Due to their frequent applicability to various products and their electrical properties such as a high energy density, secondary batteries are not only commonly applied to portable devices, but universally applied to Electric Vehicles (EVs) or Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEVs) that are driven by an electric driving source. Secondary batteries are gaining attention for their primary advantage of remarkably reducing the use of fossil fuels and not generating byproducts from the use of energy, making them a new eco-friendly and energy effcient source of energy.
- [0004] Currently, commonly used secondary batteries include lithium ion batteries, lithium polymer batteries, nickel cadmium batteries, nickel hydrogen batteries and nickel zinc batteries. A unit secondary battery cell, or a unit battery cell, has a working voltage of about 2.5V—4.5V. Accordingly, in cases where higher output voltage is required, a plurality of battery cells may be connected in series to form a battery pack. Additionally, a battery pack may be formed by connecting a plurality of battery cells in parallel based on the charge/discharge capacity required for the battery pack. Accordingly, the number or battery cells included in the battery pack may be variously set based on the output voltage or charge/discharge capacity required.
- [0005]Meanwhile, in cases where a battery pack is Ibrmed by connecting battery cells in series/in parallel, it is common to Ibrm a battery pack by Ibrming a battery module including at least one battery cell and then adding other components using at least one battery module.
- [0006]In the case or the conventional battery module, with the increasing battery capacity required, the importance or technology Ibr elliciently cooling heat generated from the battery cell is gradually increasing.
- [0007]For ellicienl cooling, the conventional battery modulc introduces a structure in which a thermally conductive adhesive is applied onto the lower inner surface or a module case or the upper side or a cooling plate to stably fix a battery cell assembly including at least one battery cell to the lower inner surface or the module case or the upper side or the cooling plate and improve thermal conductivity.
- [0008]I lowever, in the conventional battery module, the location tor applying the thermally conductive adhesive is limited 10 the lower inner surlhce of the module case or the upper side of the cooling plate. Because a separate componenl such as a voltage sensing line is disposed on the battery cell assembly, it is difficult to uniformly apply the thermally conductive adhesive over the entire battery cell assembly near the component. Accordingly, conventionally, there is a limitation that the only cooling structure that is possible is through the lower side of the battery cell assembly, which makes it impossible to design devices using the battery module or respond to design changes, and when cooling performance through the lower side of the battery cell assembly is insufficient, it is difficult to improve the cooling performance.

## DISCLOSURE

### Technical Problem

- [0009]Accordingly, the present disclosure is designed to solve the above-described problem, and the present disclosure is directed to providing a battery module that is cooled using a thermally conductive adhesive and allows a cooling structure through the upper side of the battery cell assembly, a battery pack comprising the battery module and a vehicle comprising the battery pack.
- [0010] These and other objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be understood by the following description and will be apparent from the embodiments of the present disclosure. Further, it will be readily understood that the objects and advantages of the present disclosure are realized by the means set forth in the appended claims and combinations thereof.

### Technical Solution

- [0011] To solve the above-described problem, the present disclosure provides a battery module including a battery cell assembly including a plurality of battery cells, a sensing assembly which covers the front and rear of the battery cell assembly, a module case which receives the battery cell assembly having the sensing assembly mounted thereto, and a thermally conductive adhesive interposed between an upper inner surface of the module case and an upper side of the battery cell assembly. The sensing assembly includes a first busbar frame assembly positioned in front or the battery cell assembly, a second busbar frame assembly positioned at the rear or the battery cell assembly, racing the first busbar frame assembly, and a sensing wire which connects the first and second busbar frame assemblies and runs across the upper side or the battery cell assembly in a diagonal direc[ion. The thermally conductive adhesive is disposed on two sides or the sensing wire.
- [0012]The module case may lilrther include a top plate which covers the upper side of the battery cell assembly, a  bottom plate which is positioned Facing the top plate, and covers a lower side ofthe battery cell assembly, a pair of side plates which are coupled 10 the lop plate and the bottom  plate and are positioned on two sides or the battery cell assembly, a first opening and a second opening which are open to two lengthwise direction sides or the battery cells, a front cover which is coupled to the first opening or the module case and covers the front or the battery cell assembly, and a rear cover which is coupled 10 the second opening of the module case and covers the rear of the battery cell assembly.
- [0013]The sensing wire may be provided as a Ilexible printed circuit board (FPCB). In this instance, the battery module may lilrlher include a lop cover which covers the flexible printed circuit board. The top cover may have a hook at each of two ends, the first busbar frame assembly and the second busbar frame assembly may have fixing holes for insertion of the hooks, and the hooks may be coupled to the fixing holes.
- [0014] The battery module may further include injection holes on the module case to inject the thermally conductive adhesive into the module case, the injection holes being provided on two sides of an area corresponding to the sensing wire. In this instance, the injection holes may be a plurality of injection holes provided in parallel along a direction which forms an angle of to with a direction in which the sensing wire runs.
- [0015]The injection holes may have a sloped chamlir on one side.
- [0016] The present disclosure further provides a battery pack including at least one battery module according to the present disclosure, and a pack case which packages the at least one battery module.
- [0017] The present disclosure further provides a vehicle including at least one battery pack according to the present disclosure.

### Advantageous Effects

- [0018] According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a battery module using a tubular rectangular monoframe type module case, not a conventional cell cartridge. Due to not using a conventional cell cartridge to which the edge of the battery cell is inserted and fixed by press-fit as conventionally, the tolerance in the design of the entire battery module increases, and it is possible to solve the conventional problem with the transmission of impacts or vibration to the edge of the battery cell, which may occur during mounting when the edge of the battery cell is inserted into the cell cartridge. The battery module and the battery pack can protect the battery cell from external vibration very well, and thus they are advantageous in the application of vehicles that are frequently exposed to external vibration. 
- [0019] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, assembly of the battery module can be easily performed, resulting in high process elliciency. Additionally, the battery module may not include a sealing component such as an O-ring, a cooling component such as a cooling fin, or a reinlörcing or fixing component such as a cartridge, thus reducing the number or components or the battery module. Accordingly, according to this aspect or the present disclosure, it is possible to reduce the production cost and time and the weight, thereby improving productivity or the battery module.
- [0020]According to still another aspect of the present disclosure, it is possible to unilörmly apply a thermally conductive adhesive over the entire upper side of the battery cell assembly. Accordingly, the cooling structure through the lower side and the upper side or the battery cell assembly is possible. According to the present disclosure, because cooling through the upper side or the battery cell assembly is possible, it is easy to design devices using the battery module or respond to design changes, and when cooling perlörmance through the lower side of the battery cell assembly is insullicienl, il is possible 10 improve the cooling pertörmance.
- [0021]According 10 yel another aspect of the present disclosure, because the thermally conductive adhesive is applied 10 the upper side of the battery cell assembly, il is possible to fix the battery cell to the module case more firmly, and firmly fix the position of the battery cell against impacts.
- [0022] According to a further aspect of the present disclosure, in the battery module that is cooled using the thermally conductive adhesive, the thermally conductive adhesive injection efficiency can be increased.
- [0023] As described above, the present disclosure can provide a simple and compact battery module that does not make the entire structure of the battery pack complex and does not occupy much space, and which achieves firm fixation between the battery cell and the module case, and which contributes to the cooling performance improvement. Further, the present disclosure can provide a battery pack comprising the battery module and a vehicle comprising the battery pack.
